Add Agentic Memory APIs (#10714)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _ml-commons-plugin/api/agentic-memory-apis/create-memory-container.md

## Endpoint

```json
POST /_plugins/_ml/memory_containers/_create
```

## Request body fields

The following table lists the available request fields.

Field | Data type | Required/Optional | Description
:--- | :--- | :--- | :---
`name` | String | Required | The name of the memory container.
`description` | String | Optional | The description of the memory container.
`memory_storage_config` | Object | Optional | The memory storage configuration. See [the `memory_storage_config` object](#the-memory-storage-config-object) for more details.

## The `memory_storage_config` object

Field | Data type | Required/Optional | Description
:--- | :--- | :--- | :---
`dimension` | Integer | Optional | The dimension of the embedding model. Required when embedding model type is specified as `TEXT_EMBEDDING`.
`embedding_model_id` | String | Optional | The embedding model ID.
`embedding_model_type` | String | Optional | The embedding model type. Supported types are `TEXT_EMBEDDING` and `SPARSE_ENCODING`.
`llm_model_id` | String | Optional | The LLM model ID.
`max_infer_size` | Integer | Optional | The maximum infer size, limit is 10.

> `memory_index_name` | String | Optional | The memory index name.

Reviewer: Is this the index where memories are stored?

Author: Yes, this is the index where memories are stored. When users don't specify it, the system will auto generate default index name.

        "description": "The connector to bedrock Claude 3.7 sonnet model",
        "version": 1,
        "protocol": "aws_sigv4",
        "parameters": {
            "region": "us-east-1",
            "service_name": "bedrock",
            "max_tokens": 8000,
            "temperature": 1,
            "anthropic_version": "bedrock-2023-05-31",
            "model": "us.anthropic.claude-3-7-sonnet-20250219-v1:0"
        },
        "credential": {
            "access_key": "...",
            "secret_key": "...",
            "session_token": "..."
            },
        "actions": [
            {
            "action_type": "predict",
            "method": "POST",
            "headers": {
                "content-type": "application/json"
            },
            "url": "https://bedrock-runtime.${parameters.region}.amazonaws.com/model/${parameters.model}/invoke",
            "request_body": """{ "system": "${parameters.system_prompt}", "anthropic_version": "${parameters.anthropic_version}", "max_tokens": ${parameters.max_tokens}, "temperature": ${parameters.temperature}, "messages": ${parameters.messages} }"""
            }
        ]
    }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> **Note:** The `system_prompt` parameter is required for Claude models

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `system_prompt` parameter is required for Claude models.
{: .note}
```

## Endpoint

```json
POST /_plugins/_ml/memory_containers/_create
```

## Request body fields

The following table lists the available request body fields.

Field | Data type | Required/Optional | Description
:--- | :--- | :--- | :---
`name` | String | Required | The name of the memory container.
`description` | String | Optional | The description of the memory container.
`memory_storage_config` | Object | Optional | The memory storage configuration. See [the `memory_storage_config` object](#the-memory_storage_config-object).

### The memory_storage_config object

The `memory_storage_config` object supports the following fields.

Field | Data type | Required/Optional | Description
:--- | :--- | :--- | :---
`dimension` | Integer | Optional | The dimension of the embedding model. Required if `embedding_model_type` is `TEXT_EMBEDDING`.
`embedding_model_id` | String | Optional | The embedding model ID.
`embedding_model_type` | String | Optional | The embedding model type. Supported types are `TEXT_EMBEDDING` and `SPARSE_ENCODING`.
`llm_model_id` | String | Optional | The large language model (LLM) ID.

> `max_infer_size` | Integer | Optional | The maximum number of messages the LLM processes for inference in a single request. Maximum infer size cannot exceed 10.

Reviewer 2: 1-10, including 10

> `memory_index_name` | String | Optional | The name of the index in which to save messages, embeddings, and inferred facts. If not specified, a default index name will be automatically generated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`memory_index_name` | String | Optional | The name of the index in which to save messages, embeddings, and inferred facts. If not specified, a default index is automatically generated.
```

## Endpoint

```json
POST /_plugins/_ml/memory_containers/_create
```

## Request body fields

The following table lists the available request body fields.

Field | Data type | Required/Optional | Description
:--- | :--- | :--- | :---
`name` | String | Required | The name of the memory container.
`description` | String | Optional | The description of the memory container.
`memory_storage_config` | Object | Optional | The memory storage configuration. See [the `memory_storage_config` object](#the-memory_storage_config-object).

### The memory_storage_config object

The `memory_storage_config` object supports the following fields.

Field | Data type | Required/Optional | Description
:--- | :--- | :--- | :---
`dimension` | Integer | Optional | The dimension of the embedding model. Required if `embedding_model_type` is `TEXT_EMBEDDING`.
`embedding_model_id` | String | Optional | The embedding model ID.
`embedding_model_type` | String | Optional | The embedding model type. Supported types are `TEXT_EMBEDDING` and `SPARSE_ENCODING`.
`llm_model_id` | String | Optional | The large language model (LLM) ID.

> `max_infer_size` | Integer | Optional | The maximum number of messages the LLM processes for inference in a single request. Valid values are 1--9, inclusive.

Reviewer: Is there a default for max_infer_size?

Reviewer 2: 5

Author: Default value should be 5

> `max_infer_size` | Integer | Optional | The maximum number of messages the LLM processes for inference in a single request. Valid values are 1--9, inclusive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`max_infer_size` | Integer | Optional | The maximum number of messages the LLM processes for inference in a single request. Valid values are 1--9, inclusive. Default is 5.
```

For LLM capabilities, register a Claude model (currently the only supported LLM model):

```json
POST /_plugins/_ml/models/_register
{
    "name": "Bedrock infer model",
    "function_name": "remote",
    "description": "test model",
    "connector": {
        "name": "Amazon Bedrock Connector: embedding",
        "description": "The connector to bedrock Claude 3.7 sonnet model",
        "version": 1,
        "protocol": "aws_sigv4",
        "parameters": {
            "region": "us-east-1",
            "service_name": "bedrock",
            "max_tokens": 8000,
            "temperature": 1,
            "anthropic_version": "bedrock-2023-05-31",
            "model": "us.anthropic.claude-3-7-sonnet-20250219-v1:0"
        },
        "credential": {
            "access_key": "...",
            "secret_key": "...",
            "session_token": "..."
            },
        "actions": [
            {
            "action_type": "predict",
            "method": "POST",
            "headers": {
                "content-type": "application/json"
            },
            "url": "https://bedrock-runtime.${parameters.region}.amazonaws.com/model/${parameters.model}/invoke",

>             "request_body": """{ "system": "${parameters.system_prompt}", "anthropic_version": "${parameters.anthropic_version}", "max_tokens": ${parameters.max_tokens}, "temperature": ${parameters.temperature}, "messages": ${parameters.messages} }"""

Reviewer 2: Maybe add some comment or highlight here to mention that we need this `system_prompt` field?
